SEMANTIC GROUPING OF CLINICAL STUDIES FOR RETRIEVAL AND STRATEGIC INSIGHTS

Business context & challenge:
While designing and writing a clinical trial protocol document, multiple empirical, scientific and medical references are used. Like any other
hypothesis testing, it helps gain insights from similar historical research / experiments / clinical studies from the past to minimize
chances of failure and improve predictability, quality & execution. The researcher / author’s interest would be focused on finding a subset of
trials as relevant as possible, categorized by drug(s) and/or disease(s) and other factors, given past clinical trials data. These insights can
help avoid errors and improve the speed and efficiency of the clinical trial design, which remains a challenge for pharma sector. Delays in
designing, errors etc. have a cascading impact on timelines for clinical trials.

Problem statement from technical lens:
Obtaining a matched subset of clinical trials for only a combination of 4 unstructured features (textual data: Study Title, Primary outcome
measure, Secondary outcome measure and Criteria) and using the patterns found in themafter applying the human logical thought process.
The expectation is to design the approach, model, method and/or algorithm to enable this.

Dataset:
A smaller subset of 450,000 clinical trials data will be provided from clinicaltrials.gov (publicly available)

Technical solution requirement:
Utilizing AI & deep learning methods, obtain a solution such that there is a mechanism to retrieve the relevant clinical trials based on a
query.

Metrics for Evaluation:
Using 3 different trials NCT00385736 , NCT00386607 and NCT03518073 we would evaluate 10 similar trials coming from each trial
respectively using our internal algorithm.

Additional evaluation:
Exploratory data analysis, Data preparation/cleaning, feature engineering, AI Framework, evaluation using appropriate metrics and the
model explainability (The model's explainability must align with domain understanding of clinical trials); weighted more on model
explainability.
